so it feels like therapists never
actually do anything
looking to vent my frustrations and
advice on what direction to take
um for the past six to seven years i'm
26 now my mental health has been in the
gutter
to put put it quite simply i don't want
to be alive it feels like too much work
and too much suffering every day
the reason i am still alive is because i
feel a responsibility towards people
that have helped me in the past
to get better and keep fighting over
this period of six years i've seen many
therapists and none of them have
actually helped me at all
most of it was just me talking about my
problems and them sitting there and not
offering any advice
i gave up on therapy for a while but
during the last half year i've been
getting into it again out of
desperation my theory for why it hadn't
done anything for me so far was because
i hadn't given my therapist any
direction
for that reason i decided for my first
appointment i would bring a list
with all things that i was suffering
from ranging from physical responses
intrusive thoughts external
circumstances and abstract
concepts like lack of meaning i asked
him which of these can you help me with
unfortunately in typical therapist
fashion
the answer was dodged and soon we were
back to me talking to a brick wall
uh after four sessions with this
therapist he recommended me to search
for another one
one with a more pragmatic attitude since
i seem to be
really be looking for answers even
though i was disappointed i agreed and
found another therapy practice
this one was based in act acceptance and
commitment therapy
the therapists here were actually really
nice but act never really clicked with
me
i did all the exercise they gave me but
it didn't really seem to have any effect
all of the points they made here seemed
like general no-brainer stuff
it seemed like they were quoting
directly from thanks i'm cured
following dr k's advice on how to be a
good patient i actually brought this up
recently
they were very responsive to what i said
and yesterday i had to talk with them
about general direction
unfortunately here i really struggled
with getting any answers out of them
i asked them again what they could help
me with and they gave never gave an
answer
as to what the therapy was actually
meant to bring me
i asked them if maybe my suffering
wasn't necessarily caused by cognitive
responses to stuff
and so maybe more so by instinctive
physical and emotional reactions
like a some scar i was willing to accept
that this was not the case and it
that it was caused by a cognitive blind
spot
so i asked them what they thought was
more likely
here again they would not give me a
conclusive answer they again put the
ball back in my court and gave me a few
options i could switch to a
more physical form of therapy try emdr
continue with talk focused act or look
for a different clinic
they also said that for instinctive body
focus stuff i would maybe
maybe better off in the alternative
medicine circuit
the problem right now is i simply do not
know i was hoping that therapists could
offer some form of expertise on
on this all i know is that i don't want
to be alive and that i want that to
change
i've lost faith in therapy for the most
part and i don't feel like they have
much to offer me
but i don't want to give up i feel like
i'm
all i can do is pick one of these
options on feeling and hope for the best
as i can't really make an informed
decision anyone here with a lot of
experience in the therapy world
that has suggestions on what direction
to take i like how dr k is so focused on
solving problems and i don't feel
any therapist has ever been like that
so this is a really good question okay
so here's what i'm sort of hearing just
to kind of summarize
so some people will go to therapy for
years and
they'll feel like the therapy really
isn't helpful and a lot of times what'll
happen is a patient will come into a
therapist's office and they'll say like
or a lot of times you show up right and
like you're not really sure what therapy
is or they're the expert so you let them
kind of lead
but they don't really seem to be leading
anywhere in fact
most of what they're doing is like
asking you to lead and it's really
confusing because
you know you don't know how to lead like
if you knew how to lead like you
wouldn't be in therapy right like you're
there for their expertise
and then therapists also were trained in
this way to be like very reflective in
terms of like if someone comes to us for
an answer
we kind of like put it back on them it's
the classic therapy dodge it's like the
most
you know simple
like reflex that we're taught
what can you help me with and then we
answer a question with a question
what do you think we can help you with
and i think this is kind of
it's actually like sort of a problem
because
what this means is that like you know
you're kind of like you're not really
offering any kind of guidance to
patients because that's not what we're
trained to do
because what what can we how can we
really guide them
and i think it's a huge issue because a
lot of times people are coming for us
to us for like guidance like we want a
plan
about how to move forward and this is
where
you know i remember when i was trained
to be a therap like training to be a
therapist like you know
i was taught that if someone comes in
and says like my goal is to get a
girlfriend can you help me with that
we were trained to say no we can't
because like
we can't control anything about their
lives outside of here
and i think that this is why if we look
at like life coaching it's interesting
because if you look at like you know
the psychotherapy subreddit for example
there'll be like a post on there
every couple months about how like
coaching is a scam and like
why are people getting help from coaches
and like there's no license there's no
training so like why are coaches popping
up everywhere
right like like what what i think
therapists need to understand
is that like we've sort of failed
our patients or clients or humans in a
particular way
based on our approach because we're not
about problem solving
right like that's not really what
therapy is about like therapy is all
i'm generally speaking if you look at
the roots of therapy it was sort of like
based on sigmund freud who sat there and
was like believed that the more
neutral he was the more stuff would come
out
and if stuff comes out that the goal of
therapy is to like let stuff come out
and if you let stuff come out
that will fix things so that's generally
speaking like the
the goal of therapy is that you've got
stuff buried in there and if we can
bring it out of you
then you'll move in the right direction
i think part of the problem is that
therapists are afraid
to take responsibility for their
patients
right like we're afraid to say like oh
yeah like i
i can't because then it like then it's
our skin in the game
right because like therapists have we
have this really interesting kind of
training where it's like we
you know we don't really like accept
responsibility like if if your patient
drops out of treatment like whose fault
is that
and generally speaking what i find is
that when you when you are a therapist
and you go to supervision
very few therapists will say like maybe
you could have done something better
like most of the time it's the sort of
thing where like
you know the patient really couldn't
wasn't ready yet
so we have all these kinds of things
that we sort of tell ourselves as
therapists
that sort of make it like not our fault
and so this is where part of the reason
that we kind of have a
um and i think that that that approach
is useful okay so for the record like i
think that therapy is really good like i
do that a lot you know i bring things
out of people
um it's useful but i think it doesn't
work for everyone and this is why i
think coaching has emerged
as like a field and why people are so
interested in it
because coaches are better at like
offering people answers they're like
better at being externally focused
they will actually sometimes like give
you direction give you advice
give you things that like therapists are
trained
not to do so like therapists are sort of
trained like don't ever tell your
patient to quit your job or
break up with someone or something like
that what we're trained to do as
therapists is
sort of say like oh are you unhappy then
what do you think you should do if
you're unhappy like what are the things
that you can change like we sort of like
let them come to the decision we don't
say like i think you should quit
and this is this is kind of interesting
because i remember when i was like
training to become a therapist i was
like doing something like what i do
on on stream and stuff and then one of
my supervisors was like i don't think i
can supervise you anymore and i said
why is that and she said well you're not
doing therapy and i was like well then
what am i doing she's like i don't know
your patients seem to like it but it is
a therapy
and so that i was like really surprised
and i think in the history of
you know my residency program i'm the
only one that i can think of that has
ever had like a
a supervisor kind of you know
fire them essentially it was totally it
worked out great uh because i went to
you know we went to our program director
and
and the the supervisor was really
awesome she was just like i just don't
know what you're doing and i don't think
i can help you
grow in this capacity because you seem
to want to do what you want to do
and so we found someone else that was
like much more amenable to my style and
like really helped me immensely it was
really awesome and i really appreciate
the supervisor for doing that because
she was just like you know really
cognizant of like i don't know what this
kid is doing but it seems to be pretty
good so
rather than force him to learn what i do
i think maybe you should find someone
who can like support you in what you do
um which is why mgh and
harvard medical school are fantastic
places because you sometimes have people
like that
um so you know i i think that
so what we do like and so i understand
what this person is frustrated with
because a lot of times like
therapists are like trained to like not
give you an answer and the reason we're
trained to not give you an answer is
because
what if we're wrong oh my god and then
then the patient will blame us and if
they blame us like that'll rupture the
therapeutic alliance
so what we're gonna do is like if i
order for both of us at a restaurant you
don't like the food you're gonna blame
me so what i'm gonna do is sit down
at the restaurant and never order a damn
thing and so therefore if i never order
a damn thing you never have
any ability to complain you can't hold
me accountable for anything
if i don't take responsible for anything
so this is where like i think it's crazy
because i is a
as a profession i think therapists like
this is just my opinion okay like maybe
people disagree but
i'm sure people disagree but i think
like as a profession we're trained to
not take responsibility for our patients
right and it sort of makes sense like if
you're working with someone who's
suicidal you can't really like
ultimately it's that it's gonna be their
choice like whether they kill themselves
or not you can't make them do anything
you can't
control another human being so i
understand where that lack of
responsibility comes from
but there's also like a lack of
responsibility right which is kind of
weird
and so this is where like you know i
think that
this needs to change and i think this is
why coaching is is growing so much is
because like
people want to make actual changes in
their life like they want to fix
things and sometimes they're looking for
answers
and part of what i'm a big fan of is
like giving people
bad answers because when you give
someone an answer you're like hey man
try this
and then they're like yeah that didn't
work and then it's like okay you want me
to give you another suggestion
and then eventually they're like that's
kind of funny they're like no no
your suggestions suck and i was like and
i'm like fantastic
so if my suggestions suck what do you
think we should do and there's a huge
difference between
doing that and sort of starting with
what do you think we should do
because if we establish that i'm
incompetent like it's actually
really healthy for the therapeutic
relationship because then people are
like okay at least the dude's trying
and i'm invested but i'm just
incompetent and then help me
i ask the patient to help me help them
because i really want to help them i'm
not quite sure how can you help me do it
and that's where like that's where the
real money is because then the two of us
are working together
right it's not like they're coming to me
for answers
and it's not like i'm absolving myself
of all responsibility it's sort of like
i can't do this on my own i can't fix
you i've tried i've tried to fix you as
a therapist
and then they're sort of like well you
know i know you can't fix me but i can't
do it on my own either
and then we get to this conversation
that's like let's do it together
and it's when we start doing it together
that real progress starts to happen
and the problem that i'm seeing is that
like a lot of therapists and this is
what keeps people unsatisfied is that a
lot of therapists don't
try to do it with you right they just
tell you to do it
by yourself and they're just going to
bounce things back at you
and so it's tough but i think that like
you know
if you're in this situation so first of
all props to this person for
looking for therapists after therapist
after therapist and i'd say that like
this is where you know you just got to
be a little bit careful because i
i don't know if like i think it you can
get a lot from therapy especially if
you've got a clinical illness
but i'd say that like lean a little bit
towards um
you know lean a little bit towards
spirituality uh
maybe work with an hg coach i mean
they're trained in a lot of the stuff
that
um you know a lot of the stuff is gonna
sound somewhat similar to therapy but
they're not trained to be therapists
they'll try to help you sniff out of
some scar things like that
and we're actually going to offer
additional training to our coaches about
problem solving so
you know trying to help people make
external changes in their life which is
something that's a weakness of our
program right now
because too often they try too hard to
problem-solve they're like oh just do
this
and this is the problem is because like
just do this is like
just work out just eat healthy just go
practice and talk to five people a day
go up to five strangers then just talk
to them that's how you'll overcome your
social anxiety
so that's the problem with solutions
right like it's like you can offer
people solutions but if they're not
ready to like meet them then that's
a challenge just don't be depressed
exactly just win forehead
just get better rng in your loot boxes
noob
um yeah so here's what i'd say you know
if you're
you know if you're struggling with
therapy like i think that it's good
to let people know that things don't
seem to be working for you
let people know that you're trying hard
that you've seen a bunch of therapists
but that you're actually like looking
for answers and you'd like
like their help doing it
i think on the one hand i'm really happy
with the way that this person has been
treated by his therapist because they
kind of say like i don't think i can
help you it's not what i do
and at the same time like because you
got to be professional about it i'm also
disappointed
because like what i'm not hearing from
these therapists is hey i don't know how
to do this
but i'm gonna try to learn right like i
understand you're suffering you've seen
a bunch of people
it's not what i'm trained in but like
i'm willing to try to figure things out
with you will you give me a chance even
though i don't know how to help you
and it it's just not something you know
what we see is like oh yeah try this
other form of therapy like it's like a
pass the buck kind of thing right like
oh like
sorry i can't help you like go see
someone else like sorry i can't help you
go see someone else
and then we end up with people like this
and you know a lot of times these people
wind up in my office
and and like the people who wind up in
my office have been in therapy for like
10 years
they're like yeah like it doesn't seem
to work and then they show up here
and i'm like well i'm probably not
better than them
but let's see if we can figure something
out you know like i
i can't help you but i'm willing to try
and it works out well yeah i mean i
think like
you know therapists i think need to
start taking a little bit more
responsibility for the outcomes of their
patients
it blows my mind you know like i know it
sounds absolutely crazy but like
therapists don't measure outcomes for
their patients
like you'll measure you know like you'll
you'll do things like that's patient
specific right so people will administer
like depression scales and anxiety
scales and things like that
so you'll do that like for an individual
case which is standard of care
but i've never seen a a you know a group
therapy practice
that takes all of their client data and
compares it
like oh like i tend to improve
depression by 25
and my colleagues actually improve it by
what are they doing that i'm not doing
right we don't do that there's no like
form of feedback like i don't even know
it's also like part of kind of bizarre
but like how do you give feedback to a
therapist
you know how does a therapist know if
they're doing something wrong
it's it's weird it's like almost like
the education system like i think part
of the reason that
coaching is cropping up and i think part
of like what makes our coaching program
like pretty successful is that like we
measure
outcomes very diligently and we like
notice when someone is not doing a good
job and then we like
intervene with them so
so the answer is try coaching instead of
therapy like it's worth a shot
right so like if you've tried therapy
for six or seven years and
tried a bunch of different things i'm
not saying stop doing it but i'm saying
maybe try something else
maybe try something that's a slightly
different approach
um and and for people that are you know
like
trained differently right if you're
looking for answers not to say that our
coaches can necessarily give you answers
um but i i do think that they i mean
the data suggests that they seem to be
helping people
and they're certainly not trained as
therapists so like they're doing
something that isn't therapy so